It was a situation there
where everybody was happy
to see the war
coming to an end.
And the Germans didn't
really have that much
of a heart for it.
And they realized
that the end was there.
We used to say,
"The only good Kraut
was a dead one."
Well, but there was
something in there
that, you know--
"Hey, that was a kid."
Most of 'em were kids.
We all were kids.
They had a job to do
the same way as me,
so we went about
and did the job
that we had to do.
I think we thought
that the Germans were
probably the evilest
people in the world.
But,
as the war went along,
we found out also
that it wasn't
the Germans, per se.
A lot of those soldiers--
I've thought about this
often--
that man and I
might have been
good friends.
We might have had
a lot in common.
We might have
liked to fish, you know.
He might have liked to hunt.
You never know,
you know.
Of course, they were
doing what they were
supposed to do,
and I was trying to do
what I was supposed to do.
But under different
circumstances,
we might have been
good friends.
(theme music playing)
(playing slow tune)
Man:
Which way is...
Woman:
It's that way.
That way.
(baby crying)
Tell you one thing
about the Krauts--
they sure
clean up good.
Yeah, all you need's
a little Mozart.
Beethoven.
Sorry, sir?
That's not Mozart.
That's Beethoven.
(birds chirping)
(cows mooing)
(chickens squawking)
Perconte:
Come on, chicken.
All right, this one
got some, George.
You-- you grab
the chicken
and I'm gonna grab
the eggs.
Great.
All right.
Just grab him by the foot.
Come on, chicken.
All right, if this thing
bites me, Frank,
I swear I'll shoot it.
Guten tag, fraulein.
Guten tag.
Hold on.
Hold--
But, George--
I'll be right back.
Hold on a second.
Hold on.
Hey, hey, hey, come on.
I just want to talk to ya.
I just want to talk
to you, that's all.
I just want to talk.
Woman: Verstehe nicht.
Luz:
Okay, look what I got.
A chocolate bar, huh?
You like that?
You like chocolate, huh?
Hey, Luz, why don't you
leave her alone?
Frank, why don't you just
leave me alone, okay?
You don't like chocolate?
Forget it.
I don't like
chocolate either.
How about this?
Cigarettes.
Camel.
Yeah, you like that, huh?
Luz.
Frank, please,
why don't you go
make your omelet?
Well, you ain't getting
none of my eggs, blockhead.
Jesus, my friend
just keeps talking.
Here, I got two packs.
Give it to your friends
or something.
Why don't you
come sit down?
Want to sit down here?
Come on.
That's it.
Hey, Frank, hold on.
Perc.
Jesus, come on.
What?
That Captain Nixon?
I think so.
What the hell is he
doing in his harness?
I don't know.
Maybe we jumped into
Berlin, the war's over.
Yeah, huh?
So what happened?
No dice with the fraulein?
No dice.
She smacked me
in the mouth.
Tell you what though--
Germany's looking like
it's gonna be pretty good
fraternizing territory, huh?
Yeah. Did you lose
your cigarettes?
Woman:
Oh God, God.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh God.
Hold up, hold up, hold up.
(laughing)
That's right, yeah.
Speirs: Janovec?
Shh, shh, shh.
Janovec!
Oh, shit!
Sir.
Where's my stuff?
I thought I'd leave it
over there, sir.
(men chattering
in German)
(car horn honks)
Over there.
Here.
(honks)
Thanks.
You're welcome, sir.
Sir.
Morning, sir.
Morning.
You got a box
all this stuff
will fit into?
Yes, sir, I think so.
Same destination?
Yeah.
Yes, sir,
I'll make sure
it goes out
first thing
in the morning.
Thank you, Private.
Boy, your folks
are sure gonna have
quite a collection
by the time
you get...
home, sir.
Finders keepers.
Yes, sir.
(woman singing on radio)
(knocks on door)
Winters: Nix?
Nix?
In here.
You dog,
making combat jumps
with the 17th,
while I'm
in supply briefings
all morning.
Yeah, lucky me.
Well, congratulations.
You're probably
the only man in the 101st
with three combat stars
over his jump wings.
Not bad for someone
who's never fired his
weapon in combat, huh?
Really?
You've never--?
No.
Hmm, not even with all
the action we've seen?
Not a round.
So...
how did it go this
morning-- the jump?
It was great.
Fantastic.
We took a direct hit
over the drop zone.
I got out.
Two others got out.
The rest
of the boys?
Well, they blew up
over Germany somewhere--
boom!
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
About what?
Well, tough situation
for the--
Oh, yeah, the boys.
Yeah, it's terrible.
Oh, well.
Wasn't me.
You know, the real
tragedy is
they also lost their CO,
so guess who gets to write
all the letters home.
Goddamn nightmare.
Got a visit
from Colonel Sink
this morning.
Mm?
And how is
the good colonel?
Concerned.
Still drinking nothing
but the Vat 69, huh?
Only the finest
for Mrs. Nixon's
baby boy.
That a problem
up at regiment?
What, this?
Is that what he said?
No, I just don't
like it up there.
Good, so you'll be
happy to hear
that Sink is
transferring you back
down to Battalion S-3.
What do you think
I should write to these
parents, Dick?
Hear what I said, Nix?
You've been demoted.
Yeah, demoted.
Got you.
'Cause I don't know
how to tell them
their kids never
even made it out of
the goddamn plane.
You tell 'em what you
always tell 'em--
their sons died
as heroes.
You really still
believe that?
Yeah.
Yeah, I do.
Don't you?
(clock chiming)
Nixon:
"The Cooperative for American
Remittance to Europe,
"or CARE,
"has begun assembling
food packages stateside
to assist those
European families
in dire need,"
which is presumably
all of them.
So notes home
to your family,
reminding them to donate
whatever they can,
would be
much appreciated.
I'm sure that you'll
all be happy to know
"Oklahoma's" still
playing on Broadway.
Yeah!
♪ Oklahoma ♪
♪ Where the wind comes
sweeping down the plain ♪
♪ And the waving wheat
can sure smell sweet ♪
♪ When the wind comes... ♪
♪ Right behind the rain ♪
O'Keefe, are you sitting
on your bayonet there?
Why don't you leave
the singing to Luz?
Unless you want
to do, like,
"Surrey with the Fringe
on Top," O'Keefe.
Aww, Rita Hayworth's
getting married.
Oh, Rita,
say it isn't true.
Abbott and Costello...
(mumbles)
Wartime news.
Resistance in the Ruhr
pocket's crumbling.
It looks like
there might be
a breakout in Remagen.
Apparently the Krauts
forgot to blow up one
of their bridges
when they headed
back over the line.
I guess the boys
in the 17th Airborne
did okay after all.
Eh, forget it.
We'd be in Berlin
by now, sir,
if it was us
instead of them, huh?
That's right, yeah.
Come on.
So when do you think
we're gonna jump
into Berlin,
see some
real action?
You in a rush?
No.
So what, you want
to go home
with a Congressional
Medal of Honor
or something?
No, I just thought
I'd ask.
Why don't you
do us all a favor?
Don't think.
Damn replacements.
Mm.
(speaks Spanish)
(whistles)
Hallelujah.
About time.
Yeah, well, consider
yourselves lucky.
Nixon was giving another
current-events lecture.
So tell me
nothing's happening.
Nothing's happening.
A couple of artillery
rounds at dawn,
probably from across
the river,
but that's about it.
It spooked Hashey
though.
Here, Perco.
I just finished it.
Oh, yeah?
Any sex in it?
Ain't that
kind of book.
See ya.
Yeah, see ya.
Man:
Okay, move on.
(objects clanging)
Hey, O'Brien,
relax, would you?
I'm trying to read.
It's O'Keefe.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Patrick O'Keefe.
My friends call me Paddy.
(humming "She'll Be Coming
Round the Mountain")
(exhales)
Hey, O'Brien.
Shut up!
I told you,
it's O'Keefe.
Do you know why no one
remembers your name?
It's 'cause no one wants
to remember your name.
There's too many
Smiths, D'Amatos
and O'Keefes
and O'Briens
who show up here,
replacing Toccoa men
that you dumb
replacements got killed
in the first place.
And they're all like you.
They're all piss
and vinegar.
"Where are the Krauts at?"
"Let me at 'em."
"When do I get to jump
into Berlin?"
Two days later,
there they are,
with their blood
and guts hanging out,
and they're screaming
for a medic,
begging for their
goddamn mother.
Them dumb fucks
don't even know
they're dead yet.
Hey, are you
listening to me?
Do you understand that this is
the best part of fucking war
I've seen?
I got hot chow,
hot showers, a warm bed.
Germany is almost
as good as being home.
I even got to wipe my ass
with real toilet paper today.
So quit asking about
when you're gonna see
some action, will ya?
And stop with the fucking
love songs!
When did you ship out?
A few weeks ago?
Yeah.
It's been two years
since I seen home.
Two years.
This fuckin' war.
Neither patrol
found a single Kraut.
There were none here either.
They'll be across
the river by now.
Let's send out
a night patrol,
check out the embankment
on the far side.
(clears throat)
The president's dead.
A pair of queens bets.
All right, two bucks.
Nix?
No, I'm out.
All right.
Well, I'll call
you two
and I'll raise you
another two.
Oh, I can't believe
we're not gonna drop
into Berlin.
No shit.
Ike's gonna let
the Russkies have it.
Ha, Russkies.
Goddamn it.
Let me tell you
something, Welsh,
this war is not about
fighting anymore.
It's about
who gets what.
Go ahead and deal me out
of the next hand.
What about
your money?
Are we waiting
on him again?
Yep.
(thunder rumbling)
(dog barking)
(shouts in German)
Goddamn drugstore.
Sir.
Whoa, hey, guys,
wait up.
Hey, Dexter,
how are you doing?
Good to see you.
You know who that was?
No.
Morning.
Captain Nixon.
Good to see you, sir.
I think I have
some mail for you.
Yeah, I was gonna
drop it off this afternoon
with all the other
2nd Battalion mail,
but since you're here--
yeah.
Thanks.
Listen,
I'm having some trouble
finding some whiskey.
Whiskey?
Yeah, a particular
brand of whiskey.
Vat 69.
Exactly right.
I gotta be
honest with you, sir,
that ain't gonna be easy
to find here in Germany.
Pickings are kind of
slim here.
Yeah, don't I know it.
And even if I do
find some, sir,
it ain't
gonna be cheap.
Well, that won't be
a problem.
Hey, Vest,
you hear the news?
Oh, sorry, sir.
I didn't realize
that you were here.
What news?
300,000 Krauts
just surrendered.
(whistles)
300?
Yeah, we're moving out
in an hour.
One hour?
Yeah.
Sir, sir, your mail.
Keep looking.
Excuse me.
Pardon me.
Get a move on.
Let's go.
Jesus Christ, the dog?
Lew?
Cathy's divorcing me.
I'm sorry.
She's taking everything.
She's taking the house,
taking the kid.
She's taking the dog.
It's not even her dog!
It's my dog!
She's taking my dog!
Let's go!
Load 'em up, come on!
Sarge, what do you
have in here?
Germans?
Hey, Perconte.
You got a lighter?
No, sir.
I don't smoke.
Hey, where are we
headed?
We're going to the Alps.
Let me see that lighter.
The Alps?
Yeah.
That near Berlin, sir?
No.
That's in Bavaria,
the birthplace
of National Socialism.
So that mean
no drop into Berlin?
No drop into Berlin.
Hitler ordered
the Waffen SS
to hole up in the mountains
and repel all the invaders.
He wants them to start
a guerrilla war.
Invaders-- damn,
I like the sound of that.
They'll die,
the last man trying.
Sir.
What?
My lighter.
All right,
nice lighter.
Thanks.
Waffen SS, huh?
Looks like you're
gonna get your wish
anyway, O'Flannery.
Those guys--
fucking crazy.
It's O'Keefe.
(men singing to the tune of
"Battle Hymn of the Republic")
♪ He ain't gonna jump
no more ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ He ain't gonna jump
no more ♪
♪ Christ was strapped
around his neck ♪
(singing continues)
♪ Around his
scaly bones ♪
♪ The canopy
became his shroud ♪
♪ He hurtled
to the ground ♪
♪ He ain't gonna jump
no more ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ Gory, gory... ♪
You okay, Nix?
Yeah, I'm fine.
♪ He ain't gonna jump
no more... ♪
She hates that dog.
♪ Splat!
His blood went
spurting high ♪
♪ His comrades,
they were heard to say ♪
♪ "A hell of a way
to die!" ♪
♪ He lay there
rolling round ♪
♪ In the welter
of his gore ♪
♪ He ain't gonna jump
no more ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ Gory, gory ♪
♪ What a hell of a way
to die ♪
♪ He ain't gonna jump
no more ♪
(men chattering)
Liebgott:
It's gonna be
good times, Web.
When we get home,
I mean.
First thing I'm gonna do
is get my job back
at the cab company
in Frisco,
make a killing off all
those fucking sailors
coming home, you know?
Then I'm gonna find me
a nice Jewish girl
with great, big,
soft titties
and a smile
to die for,
marry her.
Then I'm gonna
buy a house--
a big house,
with lots of bedrooms
for all the little Liebgotts
we're gonna be making.
She oughta like that.
Janovec, whatcha reading?
Um, an article.
No shit.
What's it about?
It's about why we're
fighting the war.
Why are we fighting
the war, Janovec?
It seems that
the Germans are bad,
very bad.
You don't say.
The Germans
are bad, huh?
Hey, Frank, this guy's
reading an article
over here,
says the Germans
are bad.
Liebgott:
So what about you, Web?
Learn something new
every day, huh?
I guess
I'll finish school
first and then--
Wait a minute.
Finish school?
You mean all this time
you've been talking
about Harvard this
and Harvard that,
and you ain't even
finished?
For one thing,
I haven't told you
anything.
Oh.
But yes, yes,
I haven't finished.
So the fuck what?
All right, Web,
breathe a little.
Jesus.
Fuck.
It's just the way
you always talked,
you know?
We all figured
that--
Hey, you know what?
You're right.
So the fuck what?
So what did you study?
Hey, man, I'm--
Literature.
Get outta here.
You serious?
I love to read.
Do you?
Yeah.
Dick Tracy,
Flash Gordon mostly.
Yeah, fuck.
Up, three.
(woman speaking German)
Tell her she's got
five minutes.
(woman continues speaking)
Geh raus, geh raus.
Man:
Let's go, let's go.
Move, move!
Raus!
(speaking German)
Sir, she says
they've got nowhere to go,
but the house next door's--
Hey, do you hear this?
This guy says he ain't
a Nazi.
Now why is it
in all of Germany
I've never met one Nazi yet?
We're only gonna
be here one night!
You've got four minutes!
Man: Mathilde, komm.
Woman: Komm, Wilhelm.
Wir sind keine Nazis.
Come on.
Let's go, go, move!
All of you, out!
(rhythmic marching)
(boys speaking German)
Look at 'em.
Even in defeat,
they still know
how to march with pride.
(speaks German)
Web:
Hey, you!
That's right,
you stupid Kraut
bastards!
That's right!
Say hello to Ford
and General
fucking Motors!
You stupid
fascist pigs!
Look at you!
You have horses!
What were you
thinking?
That's enough,
Webster.
Give it a rest.
Dragging our asses
halfway around
the world,
interrupting our lives.
For what?
You ignorant,
servile scum!
What the fuck
are we doing here?
Huh?
(men shouting in French)
(gunshots)
Man:
Everyone out!
Move it, move it.
1st Platoon...
(continues shouting)
I want to send out
some patrols.
We'll have Dog
here in the village,
Easy and Fox in the woods.
Okay.
Easy Company's gonna
take the northwest.
Lieutenant Lipton,
have 1st and 2nd Platoons
swing up to the woods.
Have 3rd swing around.
Yes, sir.
1st Sergeant Talbert!
You're not worried
about an ambush,
are you?
No.
Just in case we have to
stay here for the night.
O'Keefe.
Sarge.
Why the hell are you
so jumpy, boy?
I'm not jumpy.
I'm fine.
Shit, can hear
your heart pounding
in Arkansas, boy.
Jesus Christ, give
the kid a break, Bull.
Hey, George.
Yeah?
Kinda remind you
of Bastogne?
Yeah, now that
you mention it.
Except, of course,
there's no snow,
we got warm grub
in our bellies
and the trees
aren't fucking exploding
from Kraut artillery.
But, yeah, Frank,
other than that,
it's a lot
like Bastogne.
Right?
Bull, smack him
for me, please.
Thank you.
Nixon:
Hello?
(glass breaks)
(dog barking)
It sure is quiet.
He is right, fellas.
Perconte: You seen Foley?
Man: No.
Hey, guys.
Any of you guys see
any of the officers?
Foley, Nixon?
No, speak to Popeye.
Hey, Pop.
Popeye, seen any officers--
Nixon, Foley?
Speirs is searching
them buildings right
down the street.
What's the matter?
More, More,
have you seen
any of the officers?
Yeah, Major Winters
is right in there.
You all right,
Frank?
Major Winters, sir.
Uh, we found something.
We're out on patrol
and we came across this--
What, what, what, what?
Frank, Frank, what is it?
I don't know, sir.
I don't know.
Major, sir.
Open it up.
Sir.
Stand back.
Give us some room here.
Back, back.
(men speaking German)
Christenson, any of your
men speak German?
No, sir.
I need Liebgott.
Liebgott!
Lipton, find me Liebgott.
Yes, sir.
Liebgott, Liebgott!
Liebgott, Major needs you
up front, right now.
Sure.
All right, boys,
these people need care.
Give them water
and any spare
rations you might have.
Grab me some blankets, quick.
Oh, my god.
Dick.
(speaking Polish)
I'm sorry.
Here, take some water.
Jesus, Web,
can you believe this place?
No.
My god.
(sobbing)
It's okay.
Better now, eh?
Yeah?
It's okay.
(speaking German)
He said the guards left
this morning, sir.
(speaking German)
They burned
some of the huts first.
With the prisoners still
in them, sir, alive.
Nixon:
Jesus Christ.
(speaking German)
Some of the prisoners
who tried to stop them--
Some of them
were killed.
They didn't have
enough ammo for all
the prisoners, so...
they killed as many
as they could...
...before they left
the camp.
They locked the gate
behind them
and headed south.
Someone in town
must have told them
we were coming.
Yeah, I think so.
Will you ask him--
ask him what kind
of camp this is?
Um, what, uh--
why are they here?
Was ist das hier?
(speaking German)
He says
it's a work camp for...
Unerwunscht?
I'm not sure
what the word means, sir.
Uh, "unwanted"?
"Disliked" maybe?
"Criminals"?
I don't think
"criminals," sir.
Verbrecher?
No.
(speaking German)
Doctors, musicians,
tailors, clerks,
farmers, intellectuals--
I mean, normal people.
Juden.
They're Jews.
Polieren, Zigeuner.
Poles and gypsies.
(continues speaking
German)
(speaks German)
(sobbing)
Liebgott?
The women's camp
is at the next
railroad stop.
(sobbing)
Hey, Babe, come here.
Look at their arms.
Like cattle.
(quietly)
Goddamn.
Jesus.
O'Keefe.
O'Keefe?
I'm gonna call Sink.
Find Speirs
and figure out
how the hell
to get them some food
and water.
Let's go.
Let's pick up
the pace, come on.
Sergeant Martin,
get whatever we can fit
on the deuce and a half.
Move.
Let's move.
(shouting in German)
Shut up.
Take everything.
Take it all.
Check the back and--
shut up!
Check the back and see
if there's any kind of--
shut up!
I said shut up,
you Nazi fuck!
Ich-- ich--
ich bin kein Nazi.
Ich bin kein Nazi.
You're not a Nazi.
My mistake, you fat
fucking prick.
How about a human being?
Are you one of those?
Or are you gonna tell me
that you never smelled
the fucking stench?
(speaking German)
Let him go, Web.
He says he doesn't know
what the hell you're
talking about.
Bullshit.
Sergeant Talbert,
this is chaos.
There's plenty
to go round, please.
We've got more water
on the way.
Dick.
Major Winters.
Yes, sir.
Sir.
This is Dr. Kent,
the regimental surgeon.
Now, Doc, you tell
Major Winters
and Captain Nixon
what you just told me.
Yes, sir.
We need to stop
giving these men
food right now.
They're starving.
If we give them
too much to eat
too quickly,
they'll eat themselves
to death.
We need to keep them
in the camp
till we can find
a place for 'em in town.
You want us to lock
these people back up?
We got no choice, Nix.
Otherwise they
might scatter.
We need to keep
them centralized,
so we can supervise
their food intake
and medical treatment.
So until we find
someplace better--
Colonel Sink.
It's a crying-ass shame,
but let's get it done.
Yes, sir.
I don't like it
any more than you guys.
General Taylor?
Bob Sink, 506.
Sir, we're on--
we're at Landsberg,
the other side
of Buchloe.
We found something
I believe you ought
to see, sir.
I can't tell them
that, sir.
You've got to, Joe.
Yes, sir.
Grant, Christenson,
these prisoners
have to be put back
in the camp immediately.
Let the men know.
Achtung, bitte!
Achtung,
bitte!
(shouting in German)
(tower bell ringing)
(knocks on door)
Turns out
I'm staying
in the only dry
friggin' house
in Germany.
Thought you weren't
drinking the local.
Yeah, well...
Heard from Division.
Been finding
camps like this
all over the place.
Jesus.
Seems the Russians
liberated one
a lot worse.
Worse?
Yeah.
Apparently.
10 times as big,
execution chambers,
ovens.
For cremating
all the bodies.
Jesus.
The locals claim
that they never even knew
the camp existed.
They say
we're exaggerating.
Well, they're gonna have
a hell of an education
tomorrow.
General Taylor
declared martial law
about an hour ago,
ordered every able-bodied
German in town,
aged 14 to 80,
to start burying
the bodies.
That'll begin
in the morning.
10th Armored are gonna
supervise cleanup.
What about us?
We head out for...
Thalem-- Thalem--
tomorrow,
1200 hours.
Kerchief, sir?
What?
No, thanks.
Move along.
Over there.
(crying)
(musicians continue
playing)
Hitler's dead.
Holy shit.
Shot himself
in Berlin.
Is the war over, sir?
No.
We have orders
to Berchtesgaden.
We're gonna move out
in one hour.
Why?
The man's not home.
Should have
killed himself
three years ago,
saved us a lot
of trouble.
Yeah, he should have.
But he didn't.
(music playing)